---
layout: default
title: Extending
---

h2. Contributing

The source code of "BigTuna":http://bigtuna.appelier.com is available on "Github":http://github.com/appelier/bigtuna. If you have any ideas for features and/or patches or would somehow like to contribute, go ahead, fork it, implement (write tests!) and send us a pull request. We will gladly merge it.

h2(#vcs). VCS

We now support Git vcs out of the box, but it takes very little effort to write your own vcs support. Please see @extras/big_tuna/vcs/git.rb@, write your own handler and send us a pull request on "Github":http://github.com/appelier/bigtuna

# Provide a user--displayed VCS name
@NAME = "My VCS"@
# Provide a database--safe vcs name
@VALUE = "my_vcs"@
# When overriding the initializer, call @super(source, branch)@ to set basic values
# Implement the @#head_info@ instance method which should return an array of two elements @[info, command]@
** @info@ -- @Hash@ of fetched commit data:
*** @:commit@ -- commit hash
*** @:author@ -- commit author
*** @:email@ -- commit email
*** @:committed_at@ -- @Time@ object indicating time commit was created
*** @:commit_message@ -- commit message
** @command@ -- @String@ with shell command used to get data
# Implement @#clone(where_to)@ instance method which should clone the repository to a directory specified by @where_to@. The directory may have to be created

h2(#hook). Hooks

Currently there is a @Mailer@ hook for you. If you want support for custom services please check @extras/big_tuna/hooks/mailer.rb@ and create a new hook based on it.

# Provide a unique database--safe hook name
@NAME = "mailer"@

If your hook requires configuration you can create @hooks/NAME/_form.html.haml@ partial with various config fields. Those fields should have their names set to @configuration[field_name]@. They will be stored as Hash in hook config.

# Define methods you need
** @build_passed(build, config)@
** @build_fixed(build, config)@
** @build_still_fails(build, config)@
** @build_finished(build, config)@
** @build_failed(build, config)@
