---
layout: default
title: Continuous Integration
---

h2. What is BigTuna?

BigTuna is continuous integration software. Be sure to check out "Martin Fowler's page":http://www.martinfowler.com/articles/continuousIntegration.html to find out what continuous integration is.

h2. Why use BigTuna and not other ci software?

There are other similar projects, but in our opinion none of them is good enough. BigTuna aims at simplicity but not for the sake of usability. For example we allow multiple projects in one BigTuna instance, as opposed to "CIJoe":https://github.com/defunkt/cijoe. It is also designed to be extendible to a certain extent.

If you're interested, there are some "screenshots right here.":screenshots.html

BigTuna tries to be project--agnostic, meaning you can build basically anything that's tested with shell commands and returns a 0 exit code on success.

You can see BigTuna "watch itself using it's github repo right here.":http://builder.bigtuna.appelier.com

h2. Installation

BigTuna is built on top of the Rails 3 framework. Currently it is using "SQLite3":http://www.sqlite.org/ as a database backend, but since the database schema is quite simple, there should be no problems running it e.g. on "PostgreSQL":http://www.postgresql.org/.

For simple development setup, go with the standard Rails procedure.

bc. git clone git://github.com/appelier/bigtuna.git
rake db:schema:load
rails s

Check out our "tutorial for setting up BigTuna with Nginx":installation.html#nginx

See the "configuration section":configuration.html on how to add a new project.
